---
layout: post
title: "vicious circle of work"
date: 2014-10-04 17:58
comments: true
categories: 
---

Let me tell you a story of a boy called Johnny. Johnny was a happy boy.
He was of fun-loving and happy-go-lucky kind. Never worrying about a
thing in his life. He faced his life head-on. Just laid back and enjoyed
it. Everything was going well in his 'Neverland', but then he did
something so awful - so evil - that he will dread it whole of his life.
His life was so perfect with candies growing on tree, he was just HAPPY!
And suddenly it decame as dreadfull, as gloomy as winters of north pole.
While it was so sunny and warm in his life, It became dark and haunting.
And it was all his doing and he had no one to blame for it. He brought
it upon himself, being awfully mistaken that it will make his life
better. But it didn't ! It just back fired like a shotgun on his face,
whoose scars he will carry athroughout his life. And that dreadfull
mistake was that he worked hard for his exams!

Everyone just told him, how important was it to work hard for these
things, how important these exams were, and how his life depended on
them. How his life will turn a page, if he does well.

But what everyone failed to tell him was how dark and gloomy his life
will become after. And he will never be in the 'Neverland' again. Like
Peter Pan, he will just outgrow it, inspite of how much he loved it,
how much he cling on to it.

He shot in his foot with deciding to work on his JEE exams. He never
knew that this little thing will cause an endless stream of sleepless
night in his life, working endlessly. He never knew what he getting
himself into.

He did well in his exams and got into IITs - whech are the most
reputable engineering college in the country. While Johnny always found
it difficult to excell his classes in school, now he was expected to do
so in a place which had a selection of class toppers from all over the
country. He was in a place where he was needed to run, and run hard.
Where 'slow and steady' always loses the race. He was wrking harder and
harder just to survive, with no breathing room for him. Even a small nap
could leave him miles behind. While his friends outside were having it
easier. They for one enjoying there college life. Having fun and just
living it as it was meant to be, fun! All together with a far far
healthier sex-ratio. While Johnny's college hardly had any female, here
there were females in every circle. But Johnny was focused, remembering
what he was told, laughing wickedly at all, "Few more years, and then
you will rule it all!". He was preparing, working for the future, and he
will be someone.

Then came the placements, and Johnny got in. He got an A-List job on a
postions where his friends will take years and years to climb up to. His
dreams and visions were coming true. Now he can rest, he said to
himself. Now is is the time to have fun and just live it. But it proved
yet another false dawn.

He came to a job where everyone expected so much of him, after all he
was from an IIT, he was meant to be extra-ordinary at everything. They
all forget he was just a graduate, who was finding his feet. While his
friends were having training periods, he got piles and piles of work. He
was just thrown into the deep end. He was runningn again for his life,
strugling just to breathe, just to get it all in. He was working hard
with no one to teach him. Learning, studying and delivering all at the
same time. He can'thave the luxury to know his coleagues and
subordinates, or hangout with them. No he was working those nights. He
was working with people who were several years elder than him, who would
always see hima as a kid. And he couldn't hangout with people his age,
who were below him in the food chain, who will always see him as his
superior, their boss, event though he was none. So he just poured
himself to into his work, and hopes for a better tomorrow, and just be
happy.

But he just couldn't adapt, couldn't live like that anymore. So he
desires for more. He just couldn't go ahead with his education, as
choices for him were far and few. He just can't go to any college. They
were all beneath him, after he was from an IIT and working in an A-list
company. He was destined to thrive for more. So he decides to go ahead
with his lifelong dream, and starts his own company, in the hope that it
will become his beacon. He will finally do something and just enjoy it.
He will have fun and relax, and just be like others his age.

But he need to be better, because he could never settle, or his all hard
work will go in vain. So he had to do it more. He was like a gambler in
a casino, who is hooked up in the game and just can't leave, because he
has just vested in too much.

He thought his life was difficult and demanding before, but now it had
just blown out of proportion. Even his next meal depended on the way he
worked, the hours he invested and they became endless.

He never wanted this for himself. he just wanted to have fun and enjoy
life. And now he was struggling just to get hold of it. He never knew
that small bit of work he did long long time before will make his life
what it is. He was just told that few years of work and his life will be
golden. He will sip margerhitas on clouds. But it never was, no one told
him what it will truly be. A constant struggle to do better and improve.
which will lead to an ever threatening stakes of failure. Now he wonder
what could have been.

No one told him that it was the biggest lie, he was being told. No one
told him, that this was a trap and never again he will rest easy. He was
working hard in the present, wherever he was, in the hope that his future
will be easy. While his future was never easier, all he did was to make
present harder.

Once you start working hard then you just have to. Once you raise bar for
yourself, you can't look back. You'll just have to push it. That is how
we all are designed, that is what we are taught to us over and over,
that it is etched in our minds.

It was like Morphious offering you blue and red pill in 'The Matrix' to
Neo. Blue pill will give you enlightenment, and give you knowledge. But
it will take away you current - easy and perfect life, which will just
never be back. It may be a noble cause to pursue and follow, but it is
not an easy one. What is so wrong with choosing the red pill? which
will let you be happy in your bubble. But will let you be happy in your
life. Which an elitist society, like ours, won't understand. Was it so
wrong to choose mediocrity in his life? As some great philosopher said
"Ignorance is bliss".

Hard work was like blue pill, once you choose it life will be a constant
struggle, an uphill battle for persevering higher and higher. You will
never be satisfied with you achievements, always wanting more, never
knowing when to stop. Every little achievement will make you hungrier
and hoarding more and more, with ever incresing "expectations" of
everyone including yourself. It will be a vicious circle sucking you in.
With even a small iota of it creating a need of thousand fold in you
life.

I am not pushing anyone to choose the red pill, neither endorsing it. An
elitist guy like Johnny may again choose blue pill for imself, inspite
of knowing all this. But I am just showing you the "Dark Side". As every
one should know every aspect of his decisions when they take them.
Everyone has a right to choose happiness for themselves -even it comes
at a price of mediocrity - insn't it the goal of pursuing anything ??
